# herbs and spices

https://www.savoryspiceshop.com/

Asafoetida (Asafetida) – Used as a digestive aid in Indian cooking, asafoetida
has a strong odor that mellows out into a garlic-onion flavor.

Achiote (Annatto) – Reddish-brown paste or powder ground from annatto seeds
with an earthy flavor. Used primarily in Latin American dishes like mole sauce,
cochinita pibil, and tamales.

Allspice – Similar to cloves, but more pungent and deeply flavored. Best used
in spice mixes.

Bay Leaf – Adds a woodsy background note to soups and sauces.

Caraway Seed – These anise-tasting seeds are essential for soda bread,
sauerkraut, and potato salad.

Cardamom – This warm, aromatic spice is widely used in Indian cuisine. It’s
also great in baked goods when used in combination with spices like clove and
cinnamon.

Cayenne Pepper – Made from dried and ground red chili peppers. Adds a sweet
heat to soups, braises, and spice mixes.

Chia Seeds – No, these seeds aren’t just for growing crazy terracotta
sculptures! Nearly flavorless, they can be ground into smoothies, cereals, and
baked goods for extra nutrition and texture, or even used as a vegan egg
substitute.

Cinnamon (also: Vietnamese Cassia Cinnamon) – Found in almost every world
cuisine, cinnamon serves double duty as spice in both sweet and savory dishes.

Cloves – Sweet and warming spice. Used most often in baking, but also good with
braised meat.

Coriander Seed – Earthy, lemony flavor. Used in a lot of Mexican and Indian
dishes.

Cumin – Smoky and earthy. Used in a lot of Southwestern U.S. and Mexican
cuisine, as well as North African, Middle Eastern, and Indian.

Fennel Seed – Lightly sweet and licorice flavored. It’s excellent with meat
dishes, or even chewed on its own as a breath freshener and digestion aid!

Fenugreek – Although this herb smells like maple syrup while cooking, it has a
rather bitter, burnt sugar flavor. Found in a lot of Indian and Middle Eastern
dishes.

Garlic Powder – Garlic powder is made from dehydrated garlic cloves and can be
used to give dishes a sweeter, softer garlic flavor.

Ginger – Ground ginger is made from dehydrated fresh ginger and has a spicy,
zesty bite.

Gochugaru – This Korean red pepper spice is hot, sweet, and ever-so-slightly
smoky.

Grains of Paradise – These taste like a cross between cardamom, citrus, and
black pepper. They add a warming note to many North African dishes.

Kaffir Lime Leaves – Used to flavor curries and many Thai dishes. Can be sold
fresh, dry, or frozen.

Loomi – Also called black lime, this is ground from dried limes. Adds a sour
kick to many Middle Eastern dishes.

Mace – From the same plant as nutmeg, but tastes more subtle and delicate.
Great in savory dishes, especially stews and homemade sausages.

Mahlab – Ground from sour cherry pits, this spice has a nutty and somewhat sour
flavor. It’s used in a lot of sweet breads throughout the Middle East.

Nutmeg – Sweet and pungent. Great in baked goods, but also adds a warm note to
savory dishes.

Nutritional Yeast – Very different from bread yeast, this can be sprinkled onto
or into sauces, pastas, and other dishes to add a nutty, cheesy, savory flavor.

Oregano – Robust, somewhat lemony flavor. Used in a lot of Mexican and
Mediterranean dishes.

Paprika – Adds a sweet note and a red color. Used in stews and spice blends.
There is also a spicy version labeled hot paprika.

Peppercorns – Peppercorns come in a variety of colors (black, white, pink, and
green being the most popular). These are pungent and pack a mild heat.

Rosemary – Strong and piney. Great with eggs, beans, and potatoes, as well as
grilled meats.

Saffron – Saffron has a subtle but distinct floral flavor and aroma, and it
also gives foods a bright yellow color.

Sage – Pine-like flavor, with more lemony and eucalyptus notes than rosemary.
Found in a lot of northern Italian cooking.

Smoked Paprika – Adds sweet smokiness to dishes, as well as a red color.  Star
Anise – Whole star anise can be used to add a sweet licorice flavor to sauces
and soups.

Sumac – Zingy and lemony, sumac is a Middle Eastern spice that’s great in
marinades and spice rubs.

Turmeric – Sometimes used more for its yellow color than its flavor, turmeric
has a mild woodsy flavor. Can be used in place of saffron in a pinch or for
those of us on a budget.

Thyme – Adds a pungent, woodsy flavor. Great as an all-purpose seasoning.

Vietnamese Cassia Cinnamon (also: Cinnamon) – Sweet and spicy. Can be used in
both sweet baked goods and to add depth to savory dishes.
